
---
Title: "The other side of my dissertation"
date: 2026-07-03T00:00:00Z
draft: false
tags: ["life"]
summary: "Preface."
---
As Albert Einstein said, Curiosity has its own reason for existing. The continuous urge to ask questions might be disgusting at some point even to the person who is asking the questions but sometimes it might get you into some great things as well, for example you might just end up getting into a PhD in that field and find answers to your questions just the way you want to. Yes, That's how beautiful PhD is. But this is NOT a statement which is valid in every possible scenerio in the universe. Every PhD is a different story where several 1000s of parameters affect your ultimate experience. The questions that brought you here can distress you sometimes. But the endgame is you being that tortoise of that story, overcoming all the hurdles, finally reaching to your answers. That experience will be something that is priceless and precious and make sense of a long awaited victory. With this, I am begining to start documenting my journey as I roll through a very crucial stage of my academic career, my PhD.
When I understood the meaning of a career, from that very moment I wanted to be a teacher. The goal was set on the very first day. And a long hustle was carried over a period of 18 years ( School and Graduation). During that phase , the path changed many times but the destination was always fixed. After finishing my bachelor's degree I took that one step to jump some levels at a time and be closer to my goal. Yes, that step was choosing a PhD right after my Bachelor's. That was a very very brave step and even I had a mixed feelings about the decision. But within a very short time I convinced myself that all these will make me even more confused and produce no productive output and this will make the entire journey more troublesome and ruin the joy of the entire process. Yes, I told myself, TRUST THE PROCESS. I trusted. But with time I have realised that self doubt is not always a bad thing. Sometimes selfdoubt can bring out a better version of yourself about which you yourself were not aware of. But there is a threshold for everything. Whenever that threshold is crossed it turns out the other way, which can be very very desctructive. what is the threshold limit ? You're the best judge of yourself. You should decide the threshold and act accordingly.
Coming back to my story, I have chosen a field which is completely different than my Bachelor's degree. I mean being a Chemical Engineer I have chosen a synthetic biology domain for my PhD. Yes, you're right. WHY? That's the most asked question I get to hear ever since I have joined my PhD. I had Biology and Mathematics both during my +1 and +2 days. And somehow I ended up liking them both. But in our brain, we somehow feel that these two can't go hand in hand. You have to choose one. I was extremely fascinated by how efficiently our cells function, I mean how effiicient those tiny microscale level things are!!!. To this date I'm amazed. The central dogma just blew my mind. Definitely my tutor also played a great role in this. The way he helped me to visualise all these cellular processes is insane. Those visuals are etched permanently in my brain. Even after 4 years of Engineering, I'm still able to recall how tRNA works during protein translation. But then in a very very unexpected way, Engineering happened. Again I trusted the process. But while getting into my PhD I found that I can still explore those wonderful stuff yet again, it felt like life giving me a second chance. One more chance to fulfill a long hidden interest. I know the answer might sound silly but honestly that's the only reason.

Ever since I joined my PhD in July 2025, I have wanted to document every part of this journey. I had waited for a long time to get here, and I wanted to capture what all the years of effort, patience, hardships, and waiting would eventually lead to. Somehow, it took me an entire year to gather the courage to finally begin.I have never been good at documenting myself or my work. I don't know how well I'll be able to document this journey, or even how consistent I'll be throughout it. But I do know one thing, this journey has always felt worth remembering, and I finally want to give it the words it deserves.

So, with that, welcome to the other side of my dissertation. Stay tuned as I unfold the chapters that lie ahead.
